The Downtown Eastside is a multicultural community, with many residents
connected to culturally diverse communities and histories, including the
Chinatown district as well as the histories of Japanese residents in Oppenheimer
prior to World War II and the devastation of the internment camps.
While the community is located on the Coast Salish territories, the Downtown
Eastside includes Indigenous people from across North America. The community
is often recognized for poverty, homelessness and substance use. However,
the Downtown Eastside also needs to be acknowledged for its multicultural,
interconnected communities that truly care for each other.
There are several community organizations in the Downtown Eastside that
are doing extraordinary work in providing essential services to the community.
This project provides a tour of some of the community based services in
the Downtown Eastside and shares video interviews with community members
who have been impacted by stigma when accessing health care. During your
tour, please reflect on the following questions. Do these stories impact
your perspective of the overdose crisis, substance use in the community
of the Downtown Eastside? How does learning about the lived experience of
community members in the Downtown Eastside impact our practices in health
care?